readings/docker_vs_vm.md, before:

# Docker vs. Using A Virtual Machine

[Virtual machines][vm] contain a complete operating system and applications. Hypervisor-based virtualization is resource intensive, and a Virtual Machine can take up several GB depending on the OS. In general, VMs provide an environment with more resources than pretty much any application needs.

Whereas Docker containers are executed with the Docker engine. Containers are lightweight because they don’t need the extra load of a hypervisor, but run directly within the host machine’s kernel. This means you can run more containers on a given hardware combination than if you were using virtual machines.

So you might be saying something like: "Okay you just said all that... but really? What is the difference between VMs and Containers? Why would I use one over another?"

Everybody who learns Docker goes through this moment, so let's dive deeper!

There is a lot of resources out there about how Virtual Machines work under the hood. We are going to go over some of the basics so that you better understand the difference between VMs and Containers.

[vm]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_machine

## Hardware and the Kernel

Every Computer out there is comprised of essential 4 physical components:

1. Processor (CPU)
1. Memory (RAM)
1. Storage (HDD / SSD)
1. The Network Card (NIC)

One of the main tasks of any operating system is to manage those 4 resources between applications running on your computer. The Kernel, simply put, is a part of the OS that controls the hardware. The Kernel is the first program loaded when the computer is turned on, right after the bootloader, and then it handles the rest of the startup process. The majority of the time that it takes to turn on the computer, is because of the Kernel.

Each operating systems has its own implementation of the kernel, but in fact they all do the same thing: they control the hardware. So knowing that, let's talk about how a virtual machine actually runs.

## Hypervisor

The Hypervisor, is what enables virtualization (the running of several operating systems on one physical computer). It allows the host computer to share its resources between VMs. There are two main types of Hypervisors:

### Type 1: "Bare Metal Hypervisor"

This software is installed right on top of the underlying machine’s hardware (so, in this case, there is no Host OS, there are only Guest OS’s). You would do this on a machine on which the whole purpose was to run many virtual machines. Bare Metal Hypervisors have their own device drivers and interact with hardware directly. That’s what makes them faster, simpler and hence more stable.

### Type 2: “Hosted Hypervisor”

This is a program that is installed on top of the operating system. You are probably more familiar with it if you've ever installed a VM like VirtualBox. This type of hypervisor is something like a “translator” that translates the guest operating system’s calls into the host operating system’s calls.

The system calls (`syscalls`) are a way in which a program requests a service from the Kernel for underlying hardware.

An upside of a Hosted Hypervisor is that in this case we don’t have to worry about underlying hardware and it’s drivers. We really just need to delegate the job to the host OS, which will manage everything for us. The downside is that it creates a resource overhead, and multiple layers sitting on top of each other make things complicated and lowers overall performance.

![Hypervisors](https://assets.aaonline.io/Docker/hypervisor.png)

### Downsides of Virtual Machines

The first and most obvious downside of using a virtual machine is inefficient resource management. In the case of a virtual machine, we have a full-blown virtual computer, in its entirety, with its own dedicated Kernel. We allocate `RAM` for it, we allocate `memory` for it, and we interact with it as if it were a standalone computer. Once you allocate some resources for a VM, it’s going to hold onto them as long as it’s running. Another problem is boot up time. Since the VM has its own Kernel, if you need to restart your machine, it will need to boot up an entire Kernel.

## Containers Use the Host Kernel

To put it simply, a container is kind of like a application for your phone with app-scoped resources. A Container uses the Kernel of the Host operating system. Containers have their own allocated file system and IP. Libraries, binaries, and services are installed inside a container, however, all the system calls and Kernel functionality comes from the underlying host OS. Containers are **super** lightweight. They booting up and redeploying of containers happens in seconds, because they don’t need to start up the Kernel every time.

## Containers vs. VMs

A container’s purpose is to run processes in an isolated environment. Meaning that in Docker you'd run one container for every single process you needed. VMs are for emulating an entire machine. Nowadays only Linux and Windows containers exist, but there are all kinds of hypervisors to emulate any kind of operating system.

Containers are awesome because of their lightweight nature, but there are definitely situations where using a virtual machine becomes worth the associated resource cost. Containers make system calls directly to the Kernel, which opens up a whole variety of vulnerabilities. Making VMs more secure overall.

Often you see Docker containers running inside virtual machines in a production environment, so VMs and containers can be buddies and work together well.

Commit message:

CUR-1387 [Docker] Typo and awkward sentences in Docker vs VM reading

readings/docker_vs_vm.md, after:

# Docker vs. Using A Virtual Machine

[Virtual machines][vm] contain a complete operating system and applications. Hypervisor-based virtualization is resource intensive, and a Virtual Machine can take up several GB depending on the OS. In general, VMs provide an environment with more resources than pretty much any application needs.

Whereas Docker containers are executed with the Docker engine. Containers are lightweight because they don’t need the extra load of a hypervisor, but run directly within the host machine’s kernel. This means you can run more containers on a given hardware combination than if you were using virtual machines.

So you might be saying something like: "Okay you just said all that... but really? What is the difference between VMs and Containers? Why would I use one over another?"

Everybody who learns Docker goes through this moment, so let's dive deeper!

There is a lot of resources out there about how Virtual Machines work under the hood. We are going to go over some of the basics so that you better understand the difference between VMs and Containers.

[vm]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_machine

## Hardware and the Kernel

Every Computer out there is comprised of essential 4 physical components:

1. Processor (CPU)
1. Memory (RAM)
1. Storage (HDD / SSD)
1. The Network Card (NIC)

One of the main tasks of any operating system is to manage those 4 resources between applications running on your computer. The Kernel, simply put, is a part of the OS that controls the hardware. The Kernel is the first program loaded when the computer is turned on, right after the bootloader, and then it handles the rest of the startup process. The majority of the time that it takes to turn on the computer, is because of the Kernel.

Each operating systems has its own implementation of the kernel, but in fact they all do the same thing: they control the hardware. So knowing that, let's talk about how a virtual machine actually runs.

## Hypervisor

The Hypervisor, is what enables virtualization (the running of several operating systems on one physical computer). It allows the host computer to share its resources between VMs. There are two main types of Hypervisors:

### Type 1: "Bare Metal Hypervisor"

This software is installed right on top of the underlying machine’s hardware (so, in this case, there is no Host OS, there are only Guest OS’s). You would do this on a machine on which the whole purpose was to run many virtual machines. Bare Metal Hypervisors have their own device drivers and interact with hardware directly. That’s what makes them faster, simpler and hence more stable.

### Type 2: “Hosted Hypervisor”

This is a program that is installed on top of the operating system. You are probably more familiar with it if you've ever installed a VM like VirtualBox. This type of hypervisor is something like a “translator” that translates the guest operating system’s calls into the host operating system’s calls.

The system calls (`syscalls`) are a way in which a program requests a service from the Kernel for underlying hardware.

An upside of a Hosted Hypervisor is that in this case we don’t have to worry about underlying hardware and it’s drivers. We really just need to delegate the job to the host OS, which will manage everything for us. The downside is that it creates a resource overhead, and multiple layers sitting on top of each other make things complicated and lowers overall performance.

![Hypervisors](https://assets.aaonline.io/Docker/hypervisor.png)

### Downsides of Virtual Machines

The first and most obvious downside of using a virtual machine is inefficient resource management. In the case of a virtual machine, we have a full-blown virtual computer, in its entirety, with its own dedicated Kernel. We allocate `RAM` for it, we allocate `memory` for it, and we interact with it as if it were a standalone computer. Once you allocate some resources for a VM, it’s going to hold onto them as long as it’s running. Another problem is boot up time. Since the VM has its own Kernel, if you need to restart your machine, it will need to boot up an entire Kernel.

## Containers Use the Host Kernel

To put it simply, a container is kind of like a application for your phone with app-scoped resources. A Container uses the Kernel of the Host operating system. Containers have their own allocated file system and IP. Libraries, binaries, and services are installed inside a container, however, all the system calls and Kernel functionality comes from the underlying host OS. Containers are **super** lightweight. The booting up and redeploying of containers happens in seconds, because they don’t need to start up the Kernel every time.

## Containers vs. VMs

A container’s purpose is to run processes in an isolated environment. Meaning that in Docker you'd run one container for every single process you needed. VMs are for emulating an entire machine. Nowadays only Linux and Windows containers exist, but there are all kinds of hypervisors to emulate any kind of operating system.

Containers are awesome because of their lightweight nature, but there are definitely situations where using a virtual machine becomes worth the associated resource cost. Containers make system calls directly to the Kernel, which opens up a whole variety of vulnerabilities. Meaning that in general - VMs are more secure overall than just using Docker.

Often you see Docker containers running inside virtual machines in a production environment, so VMs and containers can be buddies and work together well.
