readings/heroku_guide.md, before:

# Hosting using Docker and Heroku

Now that you've created your images and can run your project locally it's time
to use Heroku to host your images. For this purpose we'll be using the
[`heroku container registry`][container]. Before attempting to Dockerize your
application make sure to check out the `Example Docker Push to Heroku` to see
**an example** of how we Dockerize and push a Rails/React application up to the
Heroku Container Registry. Before getting started we'll quickly talk about the
difference between Heroku and Docker and what the Heroku Container Registry is
actually doing for you.

## Heroku and Docker: Similar Concepts

One of the major differences between Heroku and Docker is that Heroku abstracts
the container away from the user and puts a sandbox up around what it can do.
Heroku runs on `dynos` which can be described as a lightweight containers
running a single command. Instead of a `Dockerfile` Heroku uses BuildPacks. When
you run a build on Heroku, the BuildPack creates a `Slug`. A slug is similar to
an image, in that it contains all the dependencies and can be deployed and
starts up very quickly.

So you run your BuildPack and get a `slug`, and that `slug` can then be run on a
`Dyno`. These are all very familiar concepts by now - your `Dockerfile` builds
an `image` which can be run on a `container`. The biggest difference is Docker
is open source and great for local development whereas Heroku is primarily a
commercial service provider. For our purposes we'll be deploying our own images
to Heroku's `dyno`s in order to run your application.

## Hosting Using the Container Registry

The Container Registry will allow you to deploy your Docker images on to
Heroku's `dyno`s. You'll deploy each of your custom images to a separate
container on Heroku and those containers will together build your application.
The steps to pushing up your image to Heroku will be different depending on the
application you are trying to push up but we'll be covering your basic Heroku
flow in this reading.

If you've previously pushed your project to Heroku the first thing decision
you'll have to make is whether you'd like to create a new Heroku project or
utilize your preexisting one to use Docker instead. Once you deploy your
application via the Heroku Container Registry, the stack is set to container.
Meaning your application is no longer using a Heroku-curated stack, but instead
using your own custom containers(`dyno`s). Using your own containers means that
pushing your app via `git` will now be disabled. If you no longer wish to deploy
your app via the Container Registry, you can undo this by running
`heroku stack:set heroku-16`.

After that decision is made you can use the Heroku CLI with the command
`heroku container:login` to log into the container registry. (If you receive an
error you might have to add the container registry plugin by running
`heroku plugins:install heroku-container-registry`).

At this point the next step is to push your custom image(s). Before you do so we
recommend reading [this list][heroku-docker] of things you will need to setup in
order to use Docker in production on Heroku. (Pay close attention to the `$PORT`
section because this will be how you connect your database to your application).
For a current list of `Dockerfile` commands not currently supported in Heroku
see [here][dockerfile-heroku].

Now let's talk about pushing up your images! If you have one `Dockerfile` you
can use `heroku container:push <process-type> (web, frontend, etc.)`. This
command will build your image from a file in the current directory named
`Dockerfile` and will push that image to the container registry.

If you have multiple services (Rails and React for example) you'll need two
`Dockerfile`s. The naming format would as follows:

```ruby
ls -R

# Main Directory for the Rails Application (web is the default name for the service receiving HTTP requests)
Dockerfile.web

# /frontend - give your Dockerfile endings meaningful names
Dockerfile.frontend
```

Then to build all of your images for Heroku you would run
`heroku container:push --recursive` in the root directory of your project. This
will build and push all the images necessary for your project to the container
registry. The next step is to [release][release] your images using
`heroku container:push release`. If you are using multiple images you will have
to specify the names of the images to be released (these will be the endings on
the Dockerfiles you've just built). Using the above example of two Dockerfiles
named `Dockerfile.web` and `Dockerfile.frontend` you would run the command
`heroku container:release web frontend` to release both images after they had
been previously built and pushed.

Now if you have a database, or require an extra service like `redis`, for your
project you'll add it on as a Heroku [add-on][addons]. For example if I wanted
to add a PostgreSQL database to my application I would go to the page for that
add-on and then use the Heroku CLI to add it to my application
`heroku addons:create heroku-postgresql`. Once you've setup your database if
things don't look quite right you can always check out the `heroku logs` and
reiterate through the `heroku container:push` and
`heroku container:push release` phases until everything is configured properly.
Make sure to use `heroku run` to run all your normal setup commands for a new
project(such as seeding, setting up any secrets within the Heroku config, or any
other configuration needed).

Once everything is done view your beautiful project and give yourself a huge pat
on the back! Make sure to check out the demo of an
`Example Docker Push to Heroku` to see **an example** of how we Dockerize and
push a Rails/React application up to the Heroku Container Registry.

[container]:
  https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/container-registry-and-runtime
[release]: https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/release-phase
[heroku-docker]:
  https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/container-registry-and-runtime#dockerfile-commands-and-runtime
[dockerfile-heroku]:
  https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/container-registry-and-runtime#unsupported-dockerfile-commands
[addons]: https://elements.heroku.com/addons

Commit message:

Add note about Docker Compose

readings/heroku_guide.md, after:

# Hosting using Docker and Heroku

Now that you've created your images and can run your project locally it's time
to use Heroku to host your images. For this purpose we'll be using the
[`heroku container registry`][container]. Before attempting to Dockerize your
application make sure to check out the `Example Docker Push to Heroku` to see
**an example** of how we Dockerize and push a Rails/React application up to the
Heroku Container Registry. Before getting started we'll quickly talk about the
difference between Heroku and Docker and what the Heroku Container Registry is
actually doing for you.

## Heroku and Docker: Similar Concepts

One of the major differences between Heroku and Docker is that Heroku abstracts
the container away from the user and puts a sandbox up around what it can do.
Heroku runs on `dynos` which can be described as a lightweight containers
running a single command. Instead of a `Dockerfile` Heroku uses BuildPacks. When
you run a build on Heroku, the BuildPack creates a `Slug`. A slug is similar to
an image, in that it contains all the dependencies and can be deployed and
starts up very quickly.

So you run your BuildPack and get a `slug`, and that `slug` can then be run on a
`Dyno`. These are all very familiar concepts by now - your `Dockerfile` builds
an `image` which can be run on a `container`. The biggest difference is Docker
is open source and great for local development whereas Heroku is primarily a
commercial service provider. For our purposes we'll be deploying our own images
to Heroku's `dyno`s in order to run your application.

## Hosting Using the Container Registry

The Container Registry will allow you to deploy your Docker images on to
Heroku's `dyno`s. You'll deploy each of your custom images to a separate
container on Heroku and those containers will together build your application.
The steps to pushing up your image to Heroku will be different depending on the
application you are trying to push up but we'll be covering your basic Heroku
flow in this reading.

**TL;DR:** We do not use `docker-compose` when pushing to Heroku. You will be
pushing images straight up to the container registry. Then using Heroku `dyno`s
to run your images.

If you've previously pushed your project to Heroku the first thing decision
you'll have to make is whether you'd like to create a new Heroku project or
utilize your preexisting one to use Docker instead. Once you deploy your
application via the Heroku Container Registry, the stack is set to container.
Meaning your application is no longer using a Heroku-curated stack, but instead
using your own custom containers(`dyno`s). Using your own containers means that
pushing your app via `git` will now be disabled. If you no longer wish to deploy
your app via the Container Registry, you can undo this by running
`heroku stack:set heroku-16`.

After that decision is made you can use the Heroku CLI with the command
`heroku container:login` to log into the container registry. (If you receive an
error you might have to add the container registry plugin by running
`heroku plugins:install heroku-container-registry`).

At this point the next step is to push your custom image(s). Before you do so we
recommend reading [this list][heroku-docker] of things you will need to setup in
order to use Docker in production on Heroku. (Pay close attention to the `$PORT`
section because this will be how you connect your database to your application).
For a current list of `Dockerfile` commands not currently supported in Heroku
see [here][dockerfile-heroku].

Now let's talk about pushing up your images! If you have one `Dockerfile` you
can use `heroku container:push <process-type> (web, frontend, etc.)`. This
command will build your image from a file in the current directory named
`Dockerfile` and will push that image to the container registry.

If you have multiple services (Rails and React for example) you'll need two
`Dockerfile`s. The naming format would as follows:

```ruby
ls -R

# Main Directory for the Rails Application (web is the default name for the service receiving HTTP requests)
Dockerfile.web

# /frontend - give your Dockerfile endings meaningful names
Dockerfile.frontend
```

Then to build all of your images for Heroku you would run
`heroku container:push --recursive` in the root directory of your project. This
will build and push all the images necessary for your project to the container
registry. The next step is to [release][release] your images using
`heroku container:push release`. If you are using multiple images you will have
to specify the names of the images to be released (these will be the endings on
the Dockerfiles you've just built). Using the above example of two Dockerfiles
named `Dockerfile.web` and `Dockerfile.frontend` you would run the command
`heroku container:release web frontend` to release both images after they had
been previously built and pushed.

Now if you have a database, or require an extra service like `redis`, for your
project you'll add it on as a Heroku [add-on][addons]. For example if I wanted
to add a PostgreSQL database to my application I would go to the page for that
add-on and then use the Heroku CLI to add it to my application
`heroku addons:create heroku-postgresql`. Once you've setup your database if
things don't look quite right you can always check out the `heroku logs` and
reiterate through the `heroku container:push` and
`heroku container:push release` phases until everything is configured properly.
Make sure to use `heroku run` to run all your normal setup commands for a new
project(such as seeding, setting up any secrets within the Heroku config, or any
other configuration needed).

Once everything is done view your beautiful project and give yourself a huge pat
on the back! Make sure to check out the demo of an
`Example Docker Push to Heroku` to see **an example** of how we Dockerize and
push a Rails/React application up to the Heroku Container Registry.

[container]:
  https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/container-registry-and-runtime
[release]: https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/release-phase
[heroku-docker]:
  https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/container-registry-and-runtime#dockerfile-commands-and-runtime
[dockerfile-heroku]:
  https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/container-registry-and-runtime#unsupported-dockerfile-commands
[addons]: https://elements.heroku.com/addons
